Bgursahani/uwp upgrade assistant (#29505)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/porting/upgrade-assistant-uwp-framework.md

---

> title: Upgrade UWP apps to .NET 6/WinUI3/Windows App SDK

Author: Change done

description: Use the .NET Upgrade Assistant to upgrade an existing UWP app to .NET 6. The .NET Upgrade Assistant is a CLI tool that helps migrating an app from .NET Framework to .NET 6.

> author: adegeo

Author: In my understanding, the documentation is owned by content writers and not PMs. Is it different for this repo?

> author: adegeo

Reviewer: @adegeo Mostly correct, however, a lot of the .NET engineering team own articles. While we own the content and story, structure, etc, the individual articles need a subject expert, which is you. I'll still be in the metadata as the microsoft contact though.

ms.date: 05/17/2022
---
# Upgrade a UWP App to .NET 6 and WinUI3 with Windows App SDK capabilities using the .NET Upgrade Assistant

> The [.NET Upgrade Assistant](upgrade-assistant-overview.md) is a command-line tool that can assist with upgrading .NET Framework WPF apps to .NET 6. This article provides:

Reviewer: nit:
This is your second chance to front load keywords that can be triggered on in search. The "description" metadata above and the first paragraph of the article (this one) heavily influence search results. I would rewrite this to be closer to the description but don't duplicate the description.

- What to expect from the tool?
- Things to know before starting your migration journey 
- A demonstration of how to run the tool against a UWP app
- Troubleshooting tips

For more information on how to install the tool, see [Overview of the .NET Upgrade Assistant](upgrade-assistant-overview.md).

## What to expect from the tool?

> We’re working on an update to the .NET Upgrade Assistant which is an open-source tool to help you automate migration of .NET Native UWP apps to .NET 6, including updating from WinUI 2 to WinUI 3. This is a command line tool that leverages .NET Upgrade assistant and will live as an extension in the same github repo [here](https://github.com/dotnet/upgrade-assistant.git). This tool aims to provide a simple migration experience by 

Reviewer: These text editor quotes need to be changed throughout the article.
```suggestion
We're working on an update to the .NET Upgrade Assistant which is an open-source tool to help you automate migration of .NET Native UWP apps to .NET 6, including updating from WinUI 2 to WinUI 3. This is a command line tool that leverages .NET Upgrade assistant and will live as an extension in the same github repo [here](https://github.com/dotnet/upgrade-assistant.git). This tool aims to provide a simple migration experience by 
```
Also, this description seems misleading. .NET Upgrade Assistant (that should be proper capitalized as it's the name of the product) is the tool. Unless someone is running some other tool, I would say `This is a command line tool that leverages .NET Upgrade...`

Author: Removed the line "This is a command line tool that leverages .NET Upgrade assistant and will live as an extension in the same github repo [here](https://github.com/dotnet/upgrade-assistant.git)."

> - Backing up your UWP project 
> - Convert project file (csproj) to SDK style
> - Clean up NuGet package references 
> - Update the target framework and NuGet packages 
> - Update package.appxmanifest
> - Removal of properties and items that are no longer required
> - Add template files such as App.Xaml, MainWindow.Xaml and publish profiles with options to build packaged and unpackaged app
> - Make namespace changes and add MainPage navigation
> - An attempt to detect and fix apis that have changed from UWP to Windows App SDK
> - An attempt to detect and mark apis that are either no longer supported or cannot be automatically converted with TODO comments and CLI messages

Reviewer: Considering the amount of items and how long these are, you should use a period at the end of each line. Also, can you tighten this up? The last two lines are pretty similar, other items don't really say much like "update package.appxmanifest" doesn't really mean anything, all sorts of files will be updated.

What about
```suggestion
- Back up your project.
- Converts your project to the latest SDK format and cleans up your NuGet package references.
- Adds new template files such as _App.Xaml_, _MainWindow.Xaml_ and publish profiles.
- Updates namespaces and adds **MainPage** navigation.
- Attempts to detect and fix APIs that have changed, and marks APIs that are no longer supported, with `//TODO` code comments.
```

Author: Your input looks good.

> We aim to provide migration guidance in form of warning messages within the tool and TODO comments within your project as the tool tries to migrate the project. In this way, you’ll always be in control of your migration. And for the APIs where complete automation is not possible, plan is to add //TODO comments for the developers to know where the work will be needed. A typical //TODO comment will also include a link to our existing migration documentation. Please check the Task list within the Visual Studio to see all the action items as TODO comments.

Reviewer: Use inline code when you reference the //
```suggestion
We aim to provide migration guidance in form of warning messages within the tool and TODO comments within your project as the tool tries to migrate the project. In this way, you’ll always be in control of your migration. And for the APIs where complete automation is not possible, plan is to add `//TODO` comments for the developers to know where the work will be needed. A typical `//TODO` comment will also include a link to our existing migration documentation. Please check the Task list within the Visual Studio to see all the action items as TODO comments.
```

> ## Things to know before starting your migration journey

Reviewer: Your headers are too long and wrap to the 2nd line. Trim them up.

> This tool currently supports C# and in most cases the app will require additional effort to complete the migration. The goal of the tool will be to convert your project and code so that it can compile, but features that require additional developer investigation will have TODO comments. Please check out the what’s supported page [here] (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/windows-app-sdk/migrate-to-windows-app-sdk/what-is-supported)] before you begin your migration journey.

Reviewer: Check all of your links. Don't use a locale: `en-us` and if the link is to the docs website, simply start at the root without domain `/url/path/to/article`.

Also, don't say "please" as you're not begging readers to do something :D and instead just tell them what to do. Also, be more direct with your wording, don't use `it will do x` just say `It does x`. We also use the standardized "For more information" syntax when telling someone to look at extra info.

Please look at all of your URLs and do the same changes. Here are all those fixes in a single commit for you:

```suggestion
This tool currently supports C#, and in most cases the app will require additional effort to complete the migration. The goal of the tool is to convert your project and code, so that it can compile. Some features require you to investigate and fix, and have `//TODO` code comments. For more information about what to consider before migrating, see [What is supported when migrating from UWP to WinUI 3](/windows/apps/windows-app-sdk/migrate-to-windows-app-sdk/what-is-supported).
```

> Additionally, you may choose to wait for the next version of .Net UA tool before you start migrating your app because of the current limitations of the tool:

Reviewer: Fix .NET and don't reference the tool as UA
```suggestion
Additionally, you may choose to wait for the next version of .NET Upgrade Assistant tool before you start migrating your app, because of the current limitations of the tool:
```

- ApplicationView APIs not supported
- AppWindow related APIs not supported (though it tries to generate a warning where possible and deliberately breaks your code so it doesn't compile till you manually fix things)

> - Custom Views supported (For example a CustomDialog that extends MessageDialog and calls an api incorrectly, it will not be warned about or fixed)

Reviewer: Enclose types with inline code \` 
```suggestion
- Custom Views supported (For example a `CustomDialog` that extends `MessageDialog` and calls an api incorrectly, it will not be warned about or fixed)
```

- WinRT Components not supported
- Multi window apps might not convert correctly

> - Apps that follow non standard file structure (App.xaml, App.xaml.cs not in root folder etc) might not be converted correctly

Reviewer: Considering how long these are, put a period at the end of the lines. Also, when referencing files, use the `_` syntax around the file, so for example: `_App.xaml_, _App.xaml.cs_ not in the....` This makes them italicized which is the standard way to express a file:

_App.xaml_, _App.xaml.cs_ not in the....

Author: Done

> Please note that this is currently a prerelease project and is receiving frequent updates. If you discover problems using the tool, report them in the tool's [GitHub repository](https://github.com/dotnet/upgrade-assistant). Please use the area tag as “UWP” so that all UWP related issues can be redirected to us.

Reviewer: Again, quotes fix here, and I don't think public users can tag areas, can they? Double check on that.
```suggestion
Please note that this is currently a prerelease project and is receiving frequent updates. If you discover problems using the tool, report them in the tool's [GitHub repository](https://github.com/dotnet/upgrade-assistant). Please use the area tag as "UWP" so that all UWP related issues can be redirected to us.
```

      <SubType>Designer</SubType>
    </AppxManifest>
  </ItemGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.WindowsAppSDK" Version="1.0.0" />
    <PackageReference Include="CommunityToolkit.WinUI.UI.Animations" Version="7.1.2" />
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Graphics.Win2D" Version="1.0.0.30" />
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.DotNet.UpgradeAssistant.Extensions.Default.Analyzers" Version="0.3.326103">
      <PrivateAssets>all</PrivateAssets>
    </PackageReference>
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Windows.Compatibility" Version="6.0.0" />
  </ItemGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <Compile Remove="App.xaml.old.cs" />
  </ItemGroup>
  <ItemGroup>
    <None Include="App.xaml.old.cs" />
  </ItemGroup>
</Project>
```

Notice that the .NET Upgrade Assistant also adds analyzers to the project that assist with continuing the upgrade process, such as the `Microsoft.DotNet.UpgradeAssistant.Extensions.Default.Analyzers` NuGet package.

Also notice that its using Windows App SDK, WinUI3 and .NET6.And now, you can take advantage of all new features that modern apps have to offer and grow your app with the platform.

## After upgrading

> After you upgrade your projects, you'll need to compile and test them. Most certainly you'll have more work to do in finishing the upgrade. All TODO comments and action items can be seen on the Task List (View-->TaskList) inside the visual studio. It's possible that the .NET Framework version of your app contained library references that your project isn't actually using. You'll need to analyze each reference and determine whether or not it's required. The tool may have also added or upgraded a NuGet package reference to wrong version.

Reviewer: Be explicit about opening something in Visual Studio, and use **Step** > **Step** syntax:
```suggestion
After you upgrade your projects, you'll need to compile and test them. Most certainly you'll have more work to do in finishing the upgrade. All TODO comments and action items can be seen on the Task List inside the visual studio. To open the Task List, press **View** > **TaskList**. It's possible that the .NET Framework version of your app contained library references that your project isn't actually using. You'll need to analyze each reference and determine whether or not it's required. The tool may have also added or upgraded a NuGet package reference to wrong version.
```
